let's talk about rhinoplasty rhinoplasty
is a medical term that describes
cosmetic or functional that is improving
the airway enhancement of the nose there
are many types of run up lassies out
there there is a traditional ethnic
rhinoplasty caucasian rhinoplasty
rhinoplasty z' that involve patients
that have had a large part of their nose
loss from cancer or even r on a plasti
for trauma there's been an accident in
the past I'm gonna try to emphasize for
you today the standard rhinoplasty for
example either taking a little bit of a
hump down in the Western nose or the
opposite of that which is a little bit
of enhancement of the nose for the Asian
or ethnic patient what I try to do in
this little video is sort of walk you
through the process so that you're
comfortable in understanding what the
procedure entails and also what your
recovery period will be like the
procedure is done in my surgery center
in the comfort of general anesthesia
I am very focused in delivering general
anesthesia for you because for me
rhinoplasty is a high standard of an art
I have to preserve or enhance your
airway and also make sure that your
result is perfect it's a procedure
involving fractions of millimeters so
what's so important is that you have a
good sedation where you're really under
general anesthesia so that there is no
discomfort and that I can have the most
precise control in achieving the results
that I'm looking for in terms of
recovery if you ever seen the extreme
makeover shows or the shows where you
see a lot of bruising I simply don't get
that with my patients I have yet to see
it now I don't want to tell you that and
you have some bruising because bruising
is possible but often times the sort of
gross deforming bruising is something I
simply don't see because of the fine
instruments I use so let me walk you
through the recovery period for the
first week you will have a splint on
your nose in almost all cases the splint
is really there to help hold either a
graft in place or keep the bones in
alignment if
move those little bones to where I would
like them to be and that splint really
should stay on for the week I usually
ask you not to take a shower to get that
splinter wet during that week if
possible
there'll be tiny sutures below the nose
I use a procedure called open
rhinoplasty which really allows me to
get the most precise results that I
humanly can get those sutures are
removed at a week as I said at the end
of the week you really don't get much
bruising if any but there is still a
little bit of swelling usually not
deforming swelling when I tell my
patients how much time they need off
from work I usually say about a week now
you're not a hundred percent there by
any stretch of imagination when you come
in for consultation I'll actually walk
you through photographs of my patients
at about a week or two at about a month
at about three months six months and
beyond so that you really can truly
appreciate the recovery time
photographically what you're gonna
appreciate in these photographs is truly
that there isn't much of a recovery to
be had if you're asking in terms of if
it's sort of more visible for someone
looking upon you I would say the first
week yes obviously because you have a
splint your second week is a time where
it's getting better and better and
better but Ronna plasti is one of those
things where it continues to improve
over a period of an entire year and
beyond I'm very much a perfectionist I
see my rhinoplasty patients at about a
week to take care of the splint and
sutures I see you back roughly at a
month and then three months and Beyond
really just making sure that that result
is as perfect as I can give you and as
proud as I would want to be with it I
hope that explains a little bit about
what Rana plasti is all about
you